a swamp in South America an abundance of
water and a warm tropical Sun make it a
paradise for insects of all kinds a kind
of fly cutter a cattle tyrant and
another obliging partner a capybara a
large semi aquatic rodents as the
capybara moves around it inevitably
disturbs insects of some kind or another
and what better place for an insect heat
of the spot them than sitting on the
back of one
[Music]
would the view be any better from there
perhaps it would be
[Music]
a few of these partnerships between
birds and other kinds of animals have
become very intimate indeed the hide of
a hippo may not seem a particularly rich
source of insects but there are little
ticks to be had in the various cracks
and crannies and oxpeckers go there to
search for them they have extremely
sharp claws with two toes pointing
forwards and to backwards so that they
can cling at any angles even on a
slippery hippos land animals with hair
on their hide are likely to be more
productive ground oxpeckers pay
particular attention to their ears
that's the sort of place where you might
find a tick and if there is one the
oxpecker will remove it and they also
eat earwax dandruff is another part of
their diet
their beaks are fattened so that with
their head held sideways they can comb
through their hosts hair oxpeckers spend
all their lives on or close to decide
their animal hosts they caught and mate
on their backs and when they fly off to
make a nest as they must necessarily do
they pluck hair from their hosts packs
with which to line it but do they do
anything in return it's true that they
remove irritating even damaging insects
that their hosts can't dislodge for
themselves but the birds Mane's are at
his blood sometimes they get it by
swallowing ticks that are bloated with
blood but they also take it directly
pecking at an animal's wounds to keep
them open when their host gets irritated
then they go back to their toiletry
duties before once again snatching a sip